# 教育类

## 做饭

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children at an early age should learn independent living skills.

---

I agree that children should learn independent living skills, such as cooking.

A

> studying overseas, don't worry about

First, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students.

When studying overseas, they are often required to cook for themselves.

If students can master this skill in advance, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

B

> buying prepared food, avoid high-calorie foods

Moreover, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants.

When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health.

Conversely, relying on prepared food often leads to consuming unhealthy food components.

Therefore, learning independent skills benefits children a lot.

::: details 应用

### Q1

In order to teach young people about good nutrition and health, your school is planning to require students to take cooking classes in addition to other subjects. Do you think this requirement is a good idea? Why or why not?（真题：37 CN）

---

I think this requirement is a good idea.

First, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants. When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health. Conversely, relying on prepared food often leads to consuming unhealthy food components.

Moreover, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students. When studying overseas, they are often required to cook for themselves. If students can master this skill in advance, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

### Q2

Should parents protect their children from difficulties?（真题：0512 CN）

---

Parents should teach children how to overcome challenges instead of always protecting them from difficulties. Teaching children to cook is a good way to cultivate their independence.

First, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students. When studying overseas, they are required to cook for themselves. If students can master this skill, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

Moreover, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants. When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health.

### Q3

Do you think that students should learn how to cook?（真题：0908 CN）

---

I agree that students should learn how to cook.

First, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students. When studying overseas, they are often required to cook for themselves. If students can master this skill in advance, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

Moreover, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants. When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health.

Conversely, relying on prepared food often leads to consuming unhealthy food components.

:::

## 讨论

State whether you agree or disagree with the following statement. Learning through online courses is more effective than learning in the traditional classroom setting.

---

① I disagree that learning through online courses is more effective than in the classroom.

A

> class discussions, effective learning method, various angles

② First, learning in the classroom allows us to engage in discussions with teammates and professors face-to-face, which is an effective learning method.

③ For instance, during my accounting class, we organized group discussions on corporate finance.

④ In this way, exchanging ideas has enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

B

> interact regularly with classmates, make intimate friends

⑤ Second, being in the classroom allows me to interact regularly with classmates, enhancing friendships quickly.

⑥ However, online learning restricts us to just listening to lectures, which makes it challenging to connect with peers and make good friends.

::: details 应用

### Q1

When you have questions, do you prefer to ask the advisor for help or search it through the Internet or library? Why?（真题：0613 CN）

---

When I have questions, I prefer to ask my advisor and have discussions.

First, discussing my academic questions or career plans with my advisors has been an effective learning method. For example, last semester, I had a question regarding a corporate finance course, and I exchanged ideas with my advisor. This enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Besides, seeking advice from my advisor allows me to study with him and make good friends in the long term. However, if I search for answers online, I may lose opportunities to connect with him and fail to keep friendships.

### Q2

Should students be required to participate in regular discussions in class? Please give your opinion and explanation using specific examples and details.（真题：0320 CN）

---

I believe students should be required to participate in regular discussions in class.

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, if we just self-study without participating in classroom discussions, it is challenging to connect with peers and make good friends.

### Q3

Describe a change in your country. Explain how this change influenced people in your country. Please include specific reasons and details in your response.（真题：1126 CN）

---

A change that has influenced people, especially the young, in my country is that schools encourage class discussions.

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, in the past schools didn't encourage participating in classroom discussions, it was challenging for young people to improve their social skills.

### Q4

In your opinion, what are the important characteristics of a good school? Please use reasons and specific examples to support your answers.（真题：1202 CN）

---

The most important characteristic of a good school is to allow students to have discussions in class.

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, if schools don't encourage participating in classroom discussions, it is challenging for young people to improve their social skills.

### Q5

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In order to be a good teacher, one must have experience. Give specific details and explanations to support your response.（真题：1102 CN）

---

I agree with the statement that in order to be a good teacher, one must have experience.

First, experienced teachers can be more successful in holding class discussions, which is an effective learning method for students. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

However, inexperienced teachers tend to just teach based on handouts and slides instead of organizing group discussions in class. In this case, students can’t make full use of educational resource to improve their communication skills.

:::

## 大学作用

Going to university or college can benefit people in many ways other than helping them to find a job. Please state at least one benefit of going to university or college. Use details and examples in your answer.

---

【1. 先表明观点】

Attending university can allow students to make friends and master teamwork skills rather than just job hunting.

应试技巧：表明观点可以尝试转述，比如 “Going to university” 用 “Attending university”，或 “to find a job” 用 “job hunting”。

【2. 输出语料 A 和 B，充满答题时间】

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

First, by making friends, students can get advice for solving difficulties.

For example, when college students face troubles, they can discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with friends.

Then, seasoned friends can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

应试技巧：同一个表意，尽量避免只用一个词，尝试替换不同的表达，提高 Language Use 评分。比如困难，可以用 difficulties, troubles, challenges，再或者泛泛表达用 situation。

B

> communication skills, explain ideas and listen to others

Second, the abundant group work in university courses improves communication skills and enhances team spirit.

For instance, for effective group discussions, students must clearly explain their ideas and listen attentively to others, which is essential in study, work, and life.

应试技巧：如果怕现场答题不好掌控时间，可以备考时在句型结尾设计 “which 引导的非限制性定语从句” 补充说明，考场随机应变：有时间就说，没时间不说也不影响细节拿分。

These skills will benefit students for a lifetime, not just in finding a job.

::: details

### Q1

Some students prefer to work on class assignments by themselves. Others believe it is better to work in a group.（真题：1020 NA）

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

B

> how to express our ideas and how to listen to others

I think it is better for students to work in a group on their assignments.

First, by working in a group, students can get advice for solving difficulties. For example, when I face troubles, I would like to discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with classmates. Then, other students can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

Second, many courses in the university require group work, which can improve communication skills and enhance team spirit. For effective group discussions, students must clearly explain their ideas and attentively listen to others, which is essential in study, work, and life.

### Q2

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Your friends are the most important influence in your life.（真题：0807 NA）

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

B

> communication skills, explain ideas and listen to others

I think friends are the most important influence in our life.

First, we can get advice from friends for solving difficulties. For example, when I face troubles, I can discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with friends. Then, seasoned friends can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

Second, group work in university courses highlights the importance of making friends to enhance communication skills with each other. For instance, for effective group discussions, my friends help me clearly explain my ideas, which is essential in study, work, and life. Therefore, friends in groups have influenced me a lot.

### Q3

Some people like to study in public places where there are other people around. Others prefer to study in places where there are few or no people around. Which one do you prefer?（真题：1218 CN）

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

B

> communication skills, explain ideas and listen to others

I would like to study in public places because people can work in a group.

First, by working in a place students can exchange ideas freely. For example, when I face troubles, I would like to discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with classmates in a public space. Then, other students can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

Second, a public place provides an ideal environment to improve communication skills. For effective group discussions, students must clearly explain their ideas and attentively listen to others, which is essential in study, work, and life.

Therefore, I prefer to study in public spaces.

:::

## 校园

If friends from another country were going to spend time in your country, which place would you suggest they visit? Your university or your hometown.

---

① I suggest my friends from another country visit my university.

A

> campus, buildings with diverse styles, fountain show with music

② First, my university is well-known for its stunning campus.

③ For example, in the central plaza, teaching buildings with diverse styles embrace a court with a group of fountains.

④ Especially at noon, the plaza produces a fantastic fountain show with lovely music.

⑤ I'm glad to be a tour guide for my foreign friends to appreciate the scenery together.

B

> canteen, Chinese food, story behind the dishes

⑥ Second, after the campus tour, I want to invite them to have dinner at my university because we have a popular canteen with diverse cuisines.

⑦ I will order traditional Chinese food and introduce the story behind the dishes.

::: details 应用

### Q1

What do you care most about a tourist attraction: low cost, good weather, various activities?（真题：0208 NA）

A

> campus, buildings with diverse styles, fountain show with music

B

> canteen, Chinese food, story behind the dishes

As an international student concerned about tuition fees, I prefer low-cost tourist spots.

I'm interested in attending campus tours organized by famous universities. For example, last summer, I attended a campus tour at Stanford University and enjoyed its stunning campus. In its central plaza, teaching buildings with diverse styles embrace a court with a group of fountains. Especially at noon, the plaza produces a fantastic fountain show with lovely music.

Besides, at the end of the campus tour, the University offered free lunch, including Chinese food. I shared stories behind the dishes with other tourists. I love this trip because it's affordable.

### Q2

Nowadays, many people move to cities for work and study. What advantages do moving to cities bring to people?（真题：0928 NA）

A

> campus, buildings with diverse styles, fountain show with music

B

> canteen, Chinese food, story behind the dishes

There are two distinct advantages of moving to cities.

First, urban residents can get access to commercial areas with beautiful views. For example, in Sanlitun, a commercial area in Beijing, modern buildings with diverse styles embrace a court with a group of fountains. Especially at noon, the plaza produces a fantastic fountain show with lovely music, a unique enjoyment in a commercial area.

Also, living in cities offers more opportunities to taste different cousins. For instance, I would like to order Peking Duck and learn about the story behind the dish.

Therefore, moving to cities allows people to experience unique cultures and delicious food.

### Q3

What are the advantages of furthering one's education in a foreign country? Give specific reasons and details.（真题：0227 CN）

A

> campus, buildings with diverse styles, fountain show with music

B

> canteen, Chinese food, story behind the dishes

I think studying in a foreign country has at least two advantages.

First, international students have opportunities to learn about exotic architecture. For example, by studying in North America, students can experience a Western style of campus planning. Teaching buildings with diverse architectural styles always embrace courts with fountains. Central plazas usually produce fantastic fountain shows with lovely music.

Also, students can make foreign friends by sharing food cultures. For example, I would like to invite my foreign classmates to have dinner at my dorm, cooking traditional Chinese food and introducing the story behind the dishes, which has improved our friendship greatly.

### Q4

Describe an activity you enjoyed doing with your family when you were a child. Explain why it was so enjoyable. （真题：1121 CN）

A

> campus, buildings with diverse styles, fountain show with music

B

> canteen, Chinese food, story behind the dishes

When I was a child, I enjoyed walking on a university campus near my home with my family.

First, the university is well-known for its stunning campus. For example, in the central plaza, teaching buildings with diverse styles embrace a court with a group of fountains. Especially at noon, the plaza produces a fantastic fountain show with lovely music.

Besides, the university has a canteen opening for the public. Every weekend, our family would order traditional Beijing cuisine, and I learned about the story behind the dishes. It's definitely an enjoyable activity with my family to visit the university campus.

### Q5

Describe your favorite area in your city. Please offer your explanation and details.（真题：0613 CN）

A

> campus, buildings with diverse styles, fountain show with music

B

> canteen, Chinese food, story behind the dishes

My favorite area in my city is the university campus near my home.

First, the university is well-known for its stunning campus. For example, in the central plaza, teaching buildings with diverse styles embrace a court with a group of fountains. Especially at noon, the plaza produces a fantastic fountain show with lovely music.

Second, the university has a popular canteen with diverse cuisines. I love ordering traditional Beijing food and learning about the story behind the dishes. When my friends from other cities see me, I would be a tour guide for them to appreciate the scenery and taste delicious food there.

:::

## 读书

People enjoy reading many different types of books, such as mystery, biography, romance, etc. Of all the different types of books that there are, what type do you most enjoy? Explain why.

---

① I enjoy reading biographies that introduce me to the stories of famous figures.

A

> encourage me, fired by, not defeated, inspire me to, with courage

② The first example is the biography of Steve Jobs, encouraging me to persevere.

③ He was once fired by his own company but was not defeated.

④ By starting up another company with hard work, he finally won back Apple.

⑤ His story has inspired me to tackle challenges with courage.

B

> affect my career, realize the era of, to seize the opportunities

⑥ Besides, the biography of Elon Musk that has affected my career.

⑦ While working for a traditional sector, he realized that the era of innovation was coming.

⑧ Then he established PayPal, Tesla, and SpaceX, which has motivated me to seize the opportunities in my life.

::: details 应用

### Q1

Do you prefer to learn from people and events in the past or people and events that currently exist? Explain with specific reasons and details.（真题：0212 CN）

A

encourage me, fired by, not defeated, inspire me to, with courage

B

affect my career, realize the era of, to seize the opportunities

I prefer to learn from people and events in the past.

For example, the pursuit of Steve Jobs has been encouraging me to persevere. He was once fired by his own company but was not defeated. By starting up another company with hard work, he finally won back Apple. His story has inspired me to tackle challenges with courage.

Besides, Steve Jobs' innovative spirit has reshaped my career. He foresaw the dawn of the smartphone era and then introduced the iPhone and the iPad, marking the age of mobile devices, which motivated me to seize the opportunities in my life.

### Q2

Describe a person who you would like to spend time with. Explain why you want to spend time with him or her.（真题：0221 CN）

A

encourage me, fired by, not defeated, inspire me to, with courage

B

affect my career, realize the era of, to seize the opportunities

If Steve Jobs were still alive, he would be the person I would like to spend time with.（注意虚拟语气）

I read the biography of Steve Jobs when I was a child. His determination has encouraged me to persevere. He was once fired by his own company but was not defeated. Through hard work, he finally won back Apple. His journey has inspired me to tackle challenges with courage.

Besides, his innovative spirit has reshaped my career. He foresaw the dawn of the smartphone era and then introduced the iPhone, marking the age of mobile devices, which has motivated me to seize the opportunities in my life.

### Q3

Describe a person that you look up to as a role model. Explain how this person has influenced your life. Include details and examples to support your response.（真题：0529 CN）

A

encourage me, fired by, not defeated, inspire me to, with courage

B

affect my career, realize the era of, to seize the opportunities

The person that I look up to as a role model is Steve Jobs.

I read the biography of Steve Jobs when I was a child. His determination has encouraged me to persevere. He was once fired by his own company but was not defeated. Through hard work, he finally won back Apple. His journey has inspired me to tackle challenges with courage.

Besides, his innovative spirit has reshaped my career. He foresaw the dawn of the smartphone era and then introduced the iPhone, marking the age of mobile devices, which has motivated me to seize the opportunities in my life.

### Q4

Some people think that the best way to learn is to attend lectures. Others think that it is better to learn on their own. Which do you prefer and why?（真题：0907 NA）

A

encourage me, fired by, not defeated, inspire me to, with courage

B

affect my career, realize the era of, to seize the opportunities

I believe in self-learning, like reading biographies to understand the experiences of famous figures.

The first example is learning the biography of Steve Jobs by myself. He was once fired by his own company but was not defeated. By starting up another company with hard work, he finally won back Apple. His story has inspired me to tackle challenges with courage.

Besides, the biography of Elon Musk has reshaped my career. While working for a traditional sector, he realized that the era of innovation was coming. Then he established PayPal, Tesla, and SpaceX, which has motivated me to seize the opportunities in my life.

### Q5

Which of the following library volunteer work would you choose? Helping people find the right material, reading to kids, or keeping bookshelf organized?（真题：1214 NA）

A

encourage me, fired by, not defeated, inspire me to, with courage

B

affect my career, realize the era of, to seize the opportunities

I would choose to read stories from biographies to children.

Sharing stories of famous figures with young people can help them handle challenges. For example, the biography of Steve Jobs can let children learn that Steve was once fired by his own company, but he was not defeated. By starting up another company with hard work, he finally won back Apple.

Besides, the biography of Elon Musk may cultivate new innovators. While working for a traditional sector, Musk realized that the era of innovation was coming. Then, he established Tesla. Young people hearing about the story might be inspired to become innovators.

:::

## 网络

When looking for information for a research project, some students prefer to get their information mainly from the Internet. Others prefer to mainly use printed materials such as books and academic journals. Which do you prefer, and why?

---

① I prefer to get information mainly from the Internet.

A

> all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

② First, the Internet gathers information from all over the world, allowing students to access comprehensive and systematic data for free.

③ For instance, by clicking the search button, students can get related materials instantly, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

B

> online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

④ Second, the Internet connects students to the world, enabling online communication with global professionals.

⑤ For example, students can raise questions and exchange ideas with scholars online regarding both academic and practical topics.

⑥ Compared to printed materials, using the Internet can broaden students’ horizons and teach them to tackle research challenges from different perspectives.

:::detail 应用

### Q1

Describe one case of your using the Internet and how it benefited you.（真题：0405 NA）

A

> all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

B

> online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

Last semester, I used the Internet to assist with my research project for my accounting course.

First, I utilized an academic search engine to gather information from all over the world, helping me access comprehensive data for free. For instance, by clicking the Search button, I got related materials at once, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

Second, the Internet allowed me to launch online communication with professionals worldwide. For example, we exchanged ideas with scholars online and covered various topics, including both academic and practical ones. Finally, the Internet helped me complete the project and taught me to tackle research challenges from different perspectives.

### Q2

How has the availability of the worldwide Internet changed people's lives? Please use specific reasons and examples to support your response.（真题：1020 CN）

A

all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

B

online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

For me, the Internet has improved my research progress greatly.

First, the Internet can help me gather information from all over the world and get access to comprehensive and systematic data for free. For instance, by clicking the Search button, I can collect related materials at once, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

Second, the Internet can allow me to launch online communication with professionals worldwide. For example, I can exchange ideas with scholars online and cover various topics, including both academic and practical ones. In this way, the Internet has broadened my horizons and taught me to tackle research challenges from different perspectives.

### Q3

When you have questions, do you prefer to ask an advisor for help, or search for them through the Internet or library? Why?（真题：0613 CN）

A

all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

B

online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

When I have questions, I prefer to search for them through the Internet.

First, the Internet gathers information from all over the world, and I can access comprehensive and systematic data for free. For instance, by clicking the Search button, we get related materials at once, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

Second, the Internet allows me to launch online communication with professionals worldwide.

For example, I can exchange ideas with other scholars online and cover various topics, including both academic and practical ones. In this way, the Internet broadens my horizons and teaches me to tackle research challenges from different perspectives.

### Q4

Describe a change in your country. Explain how this change influenced people in your country. Please include specific reasons and details in your response.（真题：1126 CN）

A

all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

B

online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

The change in my country that has influenced people is improved access to the Internet.

First, the high-speed Internet gathers information more efficiently, allowing us to access comprehensive and systematic data for free. For instance, by clicking the Search button, we get related materials at once, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

Second, the enhancement in online communication tools enables individuals to launch online communication with people worldwide. For example, when I have questions about my academic work, I can exchange ideas with scholars online and cover various topics, including both academic and practical ones. In this way, the improved Internet broadens our horizons.

### Q5

Which technology has made the greatest impact on people's lives in your country: airplane, computer, or television?（真题：0313 CN）

A

all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

B

online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

I think the computer has greatly impacted people's lives, especially through the Internet.

First, the computer equipped with Internet access allows us to gather information worldwide. For instance, by using online browsers, we can get diverse materials at once, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

Second, through a laptop connected to the Internet, we can launch online communication with people anywhere, anytime internationally. For example, I can raise questions and exchange ideas with others about various topics, including both academic and practical ones. Combining computers and the Internet can broaden our horizons and tackle research challenges from different perspectives.

:::
