# 观点

提前准备 Task1 万能素材/理由，比如：

health,

save time/efficiency,

relax oneself/reduce pressure,

save money/part-time job,

have a better understanding of knowledge,

broaden horizons,

protect the environment,

career/ job opportunities/learn practical skills

teamwork

friend/social networking

Last year, I had an internship at a Fortune 500 company called JingDong. We work as a team with my mentor and leaders to develop a very complex software system. It was a great experience for me because I learned some useful knowledge and skills, such as time management, teamwork, organization, customer service, and so on. All these can lay a solid foundation for my future career.

During

### 时间/效率

Why 节省时间/提高效率：

student 忙

how 节省时间/提高效率：

todo list

### 金钱/打工

why

student 穷

how

实习赚钱

## 万能预料

学生繁忙

学生没钱

idol

leader

展馆

交流

互联网

地铁

### 展馆

Every time when I visit a new city, I go to the local museums to watch some exhibitions about the city' s cultures and history. During the process, I often take photos of what I have seen in the exhibition. Then when I go back home, I can check these photos whenever I want, they can remind me of the trip.

### 交流

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, if we just self-study without participating in classroom discussions, it is challenging to connect with peers and make good friends.

### 互联网

① I prefer to get information mainly from the Internet.

A

> all over the world, comprehensive and systematic, for free

② First, the Internet gathers information from all over the world, allowing students to access comprehensive and systematic data for free.

③ For instance, by clicking the search button, students can get related materials instantly, including texts, images, and videos sorted by type.

B

> online communication, exchange ideas, broaden horizons

④ Second, the Internet connects students to the world, enabling online communication with global professionals.

⑤ For example, students can raise questions and exchange ideas with scholars online regarding both academic and practical topics.

⑥ Compared to printed materials, using the Internet can broaden students’ horizons and teach them to tackle research challenges from different perspectives.

### 地铁

① I think the subway is the most efficient type of transportation in my country.

A

> save time, traffic jams, risking being late, improve efficiency

② First, taking the subway is a great way to save time.

③ For instance, in my hometown, traffic jams are a severe issue.

（口语知识点：当集中阐明一个问题，比如 issue, problem, concern，即便前面是复数，比如交通堵塞 jams 很多，也是对一个整体问题的描述用单数 a/an）

④ Driving a car for commuting always means risking being late.

⑤ However, taking the subway can help improve efficiency and is convenient for traveling everywhere.

B

> make use of the time, prepare for the TOEFL, memorize words

⑥ Second, we can use the time on the subway to study and work.

⑦ For example, recently I have been busy working and preparing for an English test, so I use my time on the subway to listen to English news and memorize words.
