

**1.** Some people think historical sites should be open to the general public, but some people think historical cites should only be open to experts and researchers. Which do you think is better?



**2.** Some people prefer to resolve problems with friends directly face to face or on the phone. Some others prefer to resolve problems by writing, sending E-mail or text message. Which one do you prefer? Why?



**3.** When traveling, do you prefer to stay at one place for a long time, or spend less time but visit more places?



**4.** Some companies are controversial and may even be criticized by their business practice, but it offers employees a good pay. Would you like to get a job in the company or not?



**5.** Do you think it is a good thing or not to change one’s appearance through plastic surgery?



**6.** Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students should study more world history than the history of their own country.



**7.** Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Celebrities are more competent to do charity because they are rich and powerful.



**8.** Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents should allow their kids to join organized sports teams.



**9.** Do you think we should settle disagreement in a humorous way or a serious way?



**10.** Do you think children should watch TV or listen to the news on radio or not at an early age?



**11.** Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? When traveling, we should keep in contact with our family or friends.



**12.** Do you think it’s a good idea for a kid to keep a pet?



**13.** Some universities accept the students to choose a major field of study when they enter the school; while other universities allow students to take some courses in different fields before deciding to choose a major field of study. Which do you prefer? Why or why not?



**14.** Some teachers let students choose topics that interest them on research papers. Others assign topics on research papers. Which one do you prefer?



**15.** Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents should force their kids to continue learning to play the musical instrument when the kids want to give up.



**16.** Do you agree or disagree that the boss should keep a close friendship with employees?



**17.** Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? College libraries should be opened to the general public.



**18.** Some people prefer to organize activities. Other people prefer to attend them. Which do you prefer?



**19.** When watching a sports event, some people prefer to watch it in the stadium; others prefer to watch it on TV. Which do you prefer?



**20.** When making decisions, do you prefer to do it on your own or ask for others’ advice?