# AI Track

In a transformative era, AI is a fundamental force reshaping our world. From AI-generated content to large language models like GPT, AI is expanding the boundaries of creativity and innovation. With a strong interest in exploring the frontiers of AI application and development, I aim to pursue the Master of Engineering in Artificial Intelligence program at UCLA. 

During my undergraduate at Northeastern University, I earned a 3.955 GPA and was ranked 5th out of 396 in the Software Engineering major. I was awarded the National Scholarship, Merit Student Scholarship, and Outstanding Student Pacesetter. Among the various courses I have completed, Big Data Technology, Introduction to Recommendation System, and Introduction to Artificial Intelligence were the courses that stood out to me. These classes sparked my interest in AI and pushed me to think about how AI can be integrated into everyday technologies to improve user experiences and solve challenging problems. 

During my internship at JD.com, the largest Fortune 500 technology giant in China, I participated in the development of the Yanxi AI Develop & Computing Platform and the AI Pilot Marketing Platform. For the Yanxi platform, I refactored the resource management service to improve efficiency and scalability. By using the Observer Pattern and asynchronous computing, I made the peak performance of resource recalculation 20 times faster. Moreover, I refactored the activity page AI auto-generation service for the AI Pilot Marketing platform. I organized the functions with the Strategy Pattern to generate each content floor with AIGC and LLM services effectively. I also collaborated with Machine Learning Engineer colleagues to design the options and pipelines of the service, which strengthened my skills in AI-driven software solutions and deepened my understanding of user-centered design. This experience allows me to see the transformative impact of AIGC in the real technology industry. 

I developed an intelligent knowledge sharing platform 'Juejin' with Trust SVD social recommendation system at the ByteDance Youth Camp and was awarded the first prize. I also participated in the Apple Mobile Application Innovation Contest with an AR social app 'Trace Note' and won the second prize, ranking top 4 in the AR track out of 2287 teams. These experiences were opportunities to put my skills into practice, lead teams and see my innovative ideas come to life.  

After graduation, my immediate goal is to join a company with advanced AI products like Google or Meta, to participate in the life cycle of AI-driven products. My long-term goal is to start my own AI company. I envision this startup revolutionizing daily workflows and improving people's lives. 

Looking ahead, I chose UCLA MEng AI not only for its prestigious academic reputation, but also for its interdisciplinary learning environment. I look forward to taking your esteemed courses such as Machine Learning Algorithms and Natural Language Processing, where I can learn the core technology of AI applications. I am confident that UCLA's educational resources will provide me with the necessary support to achieve my academic and career goals.