# 段落语料

## 成功类

### 1. 个人和别人

To begin with, being open to new ideas is beneficial to improve abilities. It is widely acknowledged that each individual has his own strengths and weaknesses, so we need to keep on learning so as to enhance ourselves. Being willing to accept others suggestions exposes us to various kinds of opinions, thus enabling us to keep our mind updated. What's more, we can learn more about a certain field from other ideas, thus having a deeper and comprehensive understanding of it. Consequently, we will be more competitive equipped with others'fresh ideas and are more likely to succeed in the future. Here comes a concrete example. Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, used to be an English teacher and was not quite proficient in technologies. However, he is willing to accept advice and theories from his staff, and therefore he achieves success and becomes one of the wealthiest people in the world. So it is essential to be open to new ideas so that we can compensate for our drawbacks and be more comprehensive.

In addition, being open to new ideas and being willing to change his or her own mind is conducive to expanding people's social networks. Compared with people who are stubborn, people of this kind will leave a favorable impression on others, and hence they can have more harmonious relationship with others. They will be classified as the easy-going and coworkers will be more willing to communicate with them. In this circumstance, they can exchange ideas and learn from each other in a free atmosphere What's more, they will be provided with more opportunities because of the pleasant impression they leave on others. When doing business, others will consider them as a perfect partner because of their open and flexible mind. During cooperation, less conflicts will occur, and they can achieve a win-win situation. So a person's open mind to new ideas is crucial in dealing interpersonal relationships, and may even bring them extra benefits. With this, it is more possible for them to succeed.
