# Email servers

For this assignment, you will build a pair of simple email servers (SMTP and POP3) that can be used with a real email client. The assignment involves socket programming, server design, as well as working with RFC-style protocol specifications. You will need the following:

- The [HW2 handout](https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~cis5050/handouts/homework-2.pdf)
- The [basic SMTP specification (RFC 821)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc821)
- The [basic POP3 specification (RFC 1939)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1939)

As before, you should continue using the container to test your solution before submitting.

## Milestone 1: Multithreaded echo server

### 2.1 Specifications

As a first step, you will build a simple multithreaded server. Your server should open a TCP port and start accepting connections. When a client connects, the server should send a simple greeting message and then start a new pthread, which should read commands from the connection and process them until the user closes the connection. For now, you only need to support two very simple commands:

1. ECHO , to which the server should respond +OK  to the client; and 
2. QUIT, to which the server should respond +OK Goodbye! to the client and then close the connection.

Each command is terminated by a carriage return (\r) followed by a linefeed character (\n). We also refer to them as  and , or simply .) The greeting message should have the form

> +OK Server ready (Author: Linh Thi Xuan Phan / linhphan)

except that you should fill in your own full name and SEAS login.

One important challenge with building a server like this is the fact that the input from the client can arrive in small pieces, and not necessarily as an entire line. For instance, if the client sends ECHO foo, the first read() call in your server could return ECH, the next one O fo, and the final one o. Additionally, the linefeed character will not necessarily occur at the end of the data returned by read()–—it could occur in the middle. To handle this, your server should maintain a buffer for each connection; when new data arrives, it should be added to the corresponding buffer, and the server should then check whether it has received a full line. If so, it should process the corresponding command, remove the line from the buffer, and repeat until the buffer no longer contains a full line.

Your server should support multiple concurrent connections. You may assume that there will be no more than 100 concurrent connections; however, your server should not limit the number of sequential connections. For instance, suppose there are 100 currently active connections, then your server does not need to accept more connections (but it is okay to accept more connections if your server can support it). However, if some of these 100 active clients quit, then the server should be able to accept more connections.

Commands should be treated as case-insensitive. If the server receives a command it does not understand, it should return -ERR Unknown command. If the server limits the length of a command, the limit should be at least 1,000 characters. The server should also properly clean up its resources, e.g., by terminating pthreads when their connection closes; if the user terminates the server by pressing Ctrl+C, the server should write -ERR Server shutting down to each open connection and then close all open sockets before terminating.

The server should support three command-line options: -p , -a, and -v. If the -p option is given, the server should accept connections on the specified port; otherwise, it should use port 10000. If the -a option is given, the server should output your full name and SEAS login to stderr, and then exit. If the -v option is given, the server should print debug output to stderr. At the very least, the debug output should contain four kinds of lines:

1. [N] New connection (where N is the file descriptor of the connection);
2. [N] C: <text> (where <text> is a full command received from the client and N is as above);
3. [N] S: <text> (where <text> is a response sent by the server, and N is as above); and
4. [N] Connection closed (where N is as above).

The main goal of this -v option is to help you validate the behavior of your server and to debug your code. Hence, you should feel free to output other kinds of debug output besides the above (but only if the -v option is given!).

### 2.2 Testing your server with Telnet

To test your server, you can open a terminal and connect to it using the Telnet program. For instance, if the server is running on its default port (10000), you could run telnet localhost 10000 and then start typing commands. Below is an example transcript that was produced by a server with the -v option, with two different connections from two different telnet instances:

[4] New connection
[4] S: +OK Server ready (Author: Linh Thi Xuan Phan / linhphan)
[4] C: ECHO Hello world
[4] S: +OK Hello world
[4] C: TEST unsupported
[4] S: -ERR Unknown command
[5] New connection
[5] S: +OK Server ready (Author: Linh Thi Xuan Phan / linhphan)
[5] C: ECHO Nice to meet you!
[5] S: +OK Nice to meet you!
[5] C: QUIT
[5] S: +OK Goodbye!
[5] Connection closed
[4] C: QUIT
[4] S: +OK Goodbye!
[4] Connection closed

Note that, when testing your program using Telnet, you do not explicitly end your command with the special characters “\r” and “\n”. Instead, you simply type the message and then hit “Enter”; when that happens, Telnet will automatically append “\r\n” to the end of the text that you have just typed and send it to the server. Since the carriage return “\r” and the linefeed character “\n” are special characters, you will not be able to send them in your command in Telnet. For example, suppose you type “ECHO Hello there!\r\n” and hit Enter, then Telnet will send the following command “ECHO Hello there!\r\n\r\n” to the server. Here, the last two characters “\r\n” are the carriage return and the linefeed character that Telnet automatically appended to the message you wrote, whereas the “\r\n” that you typed are simply treated as a sequence of 4 normal characters ‘\’, ‘r’, ‘\’ and ‘n’ with no special meaning.

### 2.3 Testing your server with the tester

There are certain subtle bugs, such as servers sending some extra zero bytes with each response, that you cannot easily reproduce with Telnet. In addition, as discussed above, there is no way to force Telnet to send the \r\n in the middle of a command (as discussed above); hence, you won’t be able to test scenarios where these special characters appear in the middle of the byte sequence returned by read().

To help you better test your solutions, we have put together a little tester, which has been included in the framework code (in the HW2/test folder). When you run it, the tester will try to connect to your server on port 10000, so be sure to run your server with ./echoserver -p 10000. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

S: +OK Server ready (Author: Linh Thi Xuan Phan / linhphan)<CR><LF> [OK]
C: ECHO Hello world!<CR><LF>
S: +OK Hello world!<CR><LF> [OK]
C: BLAH<CR><LF>
S: -ERR Unknown command<CR><LF> [OK]
C: ECH
C: O blah<CR><LF>EC
S: +OK blah<CR><LF> [OK]
C: HO blubb<CR><LF>ECHO xyz<CR><LF>
S: +OK blubb<CR><LF> [OK]
S: +OK xyz<CR><LF> [OK]
C: QUIT<CR><LF>
S: +OK Goodbye!<CR><LF> [OK]

If something goes wrong, the tester will either abort with an error message or, in the case of smaller bugs or typos, put a little annotation in the brackets instead of the OK.

It is very important that you run this tester on your echo server, and that you fix any problems it reveals, before you submit your solution. Since the echo server is meant as a foundation for the next two milestones, which use the same server structure but more complex protocols, having a working echo server will help save you a lot of time and headaches with the other milestones. Please note also that the tester is meant only as a starting point – you should add your own tests! For instance, you should test cases with multiple connections, opening and closing lots of connections (to see whether the cleanup works), etc. Please feel free to modify the provided tester program to serve your testing purpose.

## Milestone 2: SMTP server

### 3.1 Specifications

Next, you should make a copy of your server and change it to implement the SMTP protocol. The goal of this milestone is to develop a SMTP server that works with Thunderbird. The full protocol specification is in RFC 821 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc821), but for the purposes of this assignment, we are going to simplify it a little. 

Basically, SMTP works just like the simple echo server you implemented above, but it has different commands, and its responses have a slightly different format. In SMTP, the server’s responses start with a three-digit code (e.g., 250) followed by a textual response (e.g., OK). When the client first opens a connection, the server should send a 220 ‘service ready’ response, which starts with the domain name (in our case, localhost) and a greeting message. It should then accept one of the following commands:

• HELO <domain>, which starts a connection;
• MAIL FROM:, which tells the server who the sender of the email is;
• RCPT TO:, which specifies the recipient;
• DATA, which is followed by the text of the email and then a dot (.) on a line by itself;
• QUIT, which terminates the connection;
• RSET, which aborts a mail transaction; and
• NOOP, which does nothing.

For anything else (in particular, EHLO), your server should return an error code. Please refer to the RFC 821 for the complete specification, but you are only required to implement these above commands. 

On the command line, your server should accept the name of a directory that contains the mailboxes of the local users. Each file in this directory should store the email for one local user; a file with the name user.mbox would contain the messages for the user with the email address user@localhost. The files should initially be empty (size zero; use the UNIX touch command to create these!), and new emails should be appended at the end of the file. The file should follow the mbox format—that is, each email should start with a line From   (Example: From  Wed Sep 17 11:00:00 2025), and after that, the exact text that was sent by the client (but without the final dot). You do not need to worry about emails that contain lines that start with “From ”.

Please do not confuse the above “From  ” line with the “From:” line that Thunderbird often sends as part of the email header. The former is not part of the email; instead, it is inserted by the server into the mbox file to conform to the mbox format, and it contains a space after “From”. In contrast, the latter is an email header that Thunderbird sends, and it contains “:” after “From”.

As before, your server should support the -p, -a, and -v options. The debug output should be as specified above, but the default port number should now be 2500. (The default for SMTP is 25, but port numbers below 1024 require root privileges to access.) Like before, your server should support multiple concurrent connections, use pthreads, and clean up all resources properly when it is terminated.

You are explicitly not required to implement authentication, encryption, or mail forwarding (in the sense of delivering mail to a non-local user). If the RCPT TO: command specifies a recipient whose email address ends in something other than @localhost, your server may return an error message.

### 3.2 Testing your solution

You can test your server using Thunderbird as an email client. The container has been configured such that your email servers running from within the container can accept connections from Thunderbird running on your host machine. If your machine does not have Thunderbird installed, you can download it from the official Thunderbird website.

Once Thunderbird is installed on your host machine, you should configure an email account with server name localhost, port number 2500, connection security “None”, and authentication method “No authentication”. You can then write an email to another user on localhost and send it while the server is running (inside the container). If the server does not receive the connection at all, verify that the server name is really localhost (and not ‘localhost’ or something like that), and check the port number. If the server is using unusual commands that are not mentioned above, check the security and authentication method settings. You may see an attempt to use the EHLO command at the beginning, but Thunderbird should fall back to HELO once your server returns the appropriate error code.

To create an ‘empty’ .mbox file for testing, you can use the Unix touch command. For instance, you could run the following commands:

```java
mkdir mailtest
touch mailtest/linhphan.mbox
touch mailtest/bcpierce.mbox
touch mailtest/zives.mbox
```

This would create a directory called mailtest that contains three empty .mbox files for users linhphan, bcpierce, and zives. Then, if you run the SMTP server with this directory as an argument, it should accept mails for linhphan@localhost, bcpierce@localhost, and zives@localhost, but reject everything else. (The incoming mail would then be appended to the corresponding .mbox file.)

The test directory contains another automated tester for SMTP, similar to the one that was described in Section 2.3. This tester accepts a single command-line argument, which specifies the port number that your SMTP server is running on. The output is similar to what was described in Section 2.3.

## Milestone 3: POP3 server

### 4.1 Specifications

Now you should make another copy of your echo server and change it to implement the POP3 protocol. The full protocol specification is again available as an RFC; specifically, RFC 1939, which is available at https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1939. However, we are again going to simplify things a little bit, so that it will be easier for you to implement

The POP3 mode of operation is very similar to SMTP—the client issues four-letter commands, the server sends responses in a specific format, etc.—but the details are different. With POP3, the responses do not start with three-digit codes, but rather with +OK or -ERR, depending on whether the command succeeded or failed. The initial greeting message should be +OK POP3 ready [localhost], and you should support the following commands:

- • USER, which tells the server which user is logging in;
- • PASS, which specifies the user’s password;
- • STAT, which returns the number of messages and the size of the mailbox;
- • UIDL, which shows a list of messages, along with a unique ID for each message;
- • RETR, which retrieves a particular message;
- • DELE, which deletes a message;
- • QUIT, which terminates the connection;
- • LIST, which shows the size of a particular message, or all the messages;
- • RSET, which undeletes all the messages that have been deleted with DELE; and
- • NOOP, which does nothing.

Some of these commands have required or optional parameters, and some of them return additional information after the initial +OK or -ERR line; for details, please see the RFC. If your server sees a command that is not in the above list (e.g., CAPA), it should return -ERR Not supported.

On the command line, your server should accept the name of a directory that contains the users’ mbox files, in the same format and with the same naming convention as above. Also, the -p, -a, and -v options should be supported, but the default port should now be 11000. The unique IDs that are needed for the UIDL command should be computed as MD5 hashes over the text of the corresponding message. (For this, please use the MD5_Init, MD5_Update, and MD5_Final functions from libcrypto; example code should be included in your HW2 directory.) The password of each user should be cis505.

Note that the POP3 protocol has been extended many times, e.g., with the CAPA command (RFC 2449), and SASL for authentication and security (RFC 5034). You are not required to implement these extensions, but you may find that some mail clients other than Thunderbird (e.g., Apple Mail) do not work properly without them. So please do use Thunderbird for testing! In addition, please make sure to read the RFC very carefully when you implement a command; based on our experience, there is a lot of subtlety in POP3 command syntax and the accepted sequence of commands, and your server needs to follow the requirements to work properly.

### 4.2 Testing your solution

For initial testing, it is best to use Telnet and the POP3 tester in the test directory, rather than a full email client. When your server is running, you should be able to connect to it using telnet localhost 11000, and you can then issue commands manually.

Once you are satisfied that your server (mostly) works, you should start using Thunderbird for testing. You should configure an account with email address @localhost (e.g., linhphan@localhost for me), server name localhost, server port 11000, username  (for me, linhphan), connection security “None”, and authentication method “Password, transmitted insecurely”, approximately as follows. (Note: The interface may vary depending on your platform, so the following is only an example.)

1. Run Thunderbird on your host machine.
2. A dialog box will open that offers new email accounts. Click on “I think I’ll configure my account later”.
3. Click on the three horizontal bars in the upper right of the main Thunderbird window. A menu opens; click “Preferences...” and then “Account settings”.
4. Click on the “Account actions” button on the lower left, and then on “Add Mail account...”
5. In the dialog box that opens now, enter your own name under “Your Name”, and an email address that ends in @localhost. For instance, I would enter Linh Thi Xuan Phan and linhphan@localhost. The password should be cis505. Hit Continue.
6. Mozilla will now try to autoconfigure the account. This is hopeless in this case, so just wait for it to fail. A big dialog box with lots of buttons will open.
7. Switch the Incoming protocol from IMAP to POP3.
8. Replace the names of the Incoming and Outgoing servers with localhost (remove the dot)
9. Change the POP3 port from “autodetect” to 11000 and the SMTP port from “autodetect” to 2500.
10. Under SSL, choose “None” for both Incoming and Outgoing.
11. Switch the Incoming authentication to “Normal password”.
12. Switch the Outgoing authentication to “No authentication”.
13. Now the Advanced button should be clickable. Click it. A new dialog box will open.
14. Click on Server settings. Replace the server name with localhost once more (remove the dot).
15. Remove the checkboxes for “Check for new messages at startup” and “Check for new messages every 10 minutes”.
16. Click on Outgoing Server (SMTP) on the left. Click Edit. Change the server name to localhost once more (remove the dot).

Once your SMTP and POP3 servers are both running (and configured with the same directory), you should now be able to send an email to yourself and see it appear in your inbox. We strongly suggest that you keep the -v option on during testing, so you can see what the email client is saying to your server, and how your server is responding.

## Extra Credit

### Mail relay (+8pts) 

For this extra-credit task, you should extend your SMTP server to accept mails for non-local users—i.e., mails whose recipients’ email addresses end with something other than @localhost, such as @cis.upenn.edu or @gmail.com. These emails should be stored in a file called mqueue within the mailbox directory. In addition, you should write an additional program, called relay.cc, that acts like an SMTP client. This program should read the contents of the mqueue file and attempt to deliver the emails within it. 

Your relay.cc program should be executed concurently with your SMTP server. It should accept the name of the mailbox directory on the command line, and it should support the -v and -a options as above. (Notice that you need to look up the name of the destination’s mail server in DNS, using an MX record; you can use the res_query function from the libresolv library to do that.) Once invoked, your program should attempt to deliver each mail in mqueue; if an email is successfully delivered, it should be removed from the mqueue file, so that only the undeliverable emails remain in the file after the program terminates. 

Although this extra credit is not officially part of the main assignment, it will be one of the many features that you need to build for your project. Hence, you are strongly encouraged to attempt this extra credit!