# Basic of formal language theory

Roughly, there are two dual views of languages: 

- The recognition point view. 

  M, (an automaton) that takes a string, w, as input and returns two possible answers: 

  - Yes, the string w is accepted, which means that w belongs to the language, L, that we are trying to define. 
  - No, the string w is rejected, which means that w does not belong to the language, L.

- The generation point of view.

  formalisms that specify a language in terms of rules that allow the generation of “legal” strings. The most common formalism is that of a formal grammar

we are typically considering two things: 

- The syntax , i.e., what are the “legal” strings in that language (what are the “grammar rules”?). 
- The semantics of strings in the language, i.e., what is the meaning (or interpretation) of a string.

> we will only be dealing with syntax!

## Alphabets, Strings, Languages

a language is a set of strings

**Definition 2.1.** An **alphabet** Σ is any finite set.

We often write $Σ = \{a_1,...,a_k\}$. The $a_i$ are called the **symbols** of the alphabet.

A **string** is a finite sequence of symbols. Technically, it is convenient to define strings as
functions. For any integer n ≥ 1, let $[n]=\{1,2,...,n\}$

and for $n=0$, let $[0]=\empty$

**Definition 2.2.** Given an alphabet Σ, a **string** over Σ (or simply a string) of length n is any function

$u: [n]\rightarrow\Sigma$

$\epsilon$ empty string, or null string

**Definition 2.3.** Given an alphabet Σ, given any two strings $u: [m] → Σ$ and $v: [n] → Σ$, the **concatenation** $u · v$ (also written $uv$) of u and v is the string

$uv: [m + n] → Σ$, defined such that

$|uv|=|u|+|v|$

$u\epsilon=\epsilon u=u$

$u^n$

- $u^0=\epsilon$
- $u^{n+1}=u^nu=uu^n$

**Definition 2.4.** Given an alphabet Σ, given any two strings u, v ∈ Σ∗ we define the following notions as follows:

- prefix
- suffix
- substring

We say that u is a proper prefix (suffix, substring) of v iff u is a prefix (suffix, substring) of v and $u  \ne v$.

**Definition 2.5.** Given an alphabet Σ, assumed totally ordered such that, **lexicographic ordering**: $\preceq$ 

reversal $w^R$

- $\epsilon^R=\epsilon$
- $(ua)^R=au^R$

**Definition 2.6.** Given an alphabet Σ, a **language** over Σ (or simply a language) is any subset L of Σ∗. If Σ ̸= ∅, there are uncountably many languages.

## Finite, Infinite, Countable, and Uncountable Sets

The number n is uniquely determined. It is called the cardinality (or size) of X and is denoted by |X|.

**Definition 2.7.** A set X is countable (or denumerable) if there is an injection from X into N.

**Theorem 2.1.** (Cantor, 1873) For every set X, there is no surjection from X onto $2^X$.

We will begin with the family of regular languages, and then proceed to the context-free
languages

## Operations on Languages

- union
- intersection
- difference
- relative complement
- complement

**Definition 2.8.** Given an alphabet Σ, for any two languages L1, L2 over Σ, the concatenation L1L2 of L1 and L2 is the language

$L^n$

- $L^0={\epsilon}$
- $L^{n+1}=L^nL=LL^n$

We define the reversal $L^R$ of a language L ⊆ Σ∗ as

$L^R=\{w^R|w\in L\}$

**Definition 2.9.** Given an alphabet Σ, for any language L over Σ, 

- The Kleene +-closure $L^+$ of L is the language

  $L^+=\bigcup\limits_{n\ge1}L^n$

- The Kleene ∗-closure$L^∗$ of L is the language

  $L^*=\bigcup\limits_{n\ge0}L^n$

  - if $\epsilon \in L^*$, $L^*=L^+\cup\{\epsilon\}$
  - if $\epsilon \notin L^*$, then $\epsilon \notin L^+$
    - $\empty^*=\{\epsilon\}$
    - $L^+=L^*L$
    - $L^{**}=L^*$
    - $L^*L^*=L^*$

  homomorphism h

> 这俩都是 infinite union
