# Project 2: Environmental Renders with Arnold

- **Due** Nov 5 by 11:59pm
- **Points** 25
- **Submitting** a file upload

- In this project, you will apply 3D production workflows to develop one complete **interior** 3D environment. The environment model should be based on observable reference and can be a mash-up of two real spaces. (For example, you can model a library space that’s a hybrid between the Penn library and the Free Library of Philadelphia. It should have observable qualities and models based on reference images that you can take.) The model should have *at least* 5 unique models (furniture, decorations, and at least one “hero model”). You will model and UV one cohesive 3D scene, create materials and texture sets, and submit 4 rendered images, all taken from different perspectives and/or with different lighting settings. All renders must be 1920x1080, generated in Maya using Arnold.

---

- Cabinets and Drawers: Sleek, handle-less cabinets for a minimalist look.
- Kitchen Island: Central island with black granite countertops and a couple of modern stools.
- Decorative Plants: Small potted plants to add a touch of greenery and life to the space.
- Lighting Fixtures: Modern ceiling lights and under-cabinet lighting for a cozy, illuminated environment.
- A kitchen sink 





1. See the most furniture of the kitchen, the lights, cabinets kitchen island, and chairs
2. A big window and the right part of the kitchen
3. A view in front of the window

Current Issues

UV is not abundant enough

Diffuse light is not that obvious
