# 教育类

### 做饭

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children at an early age should learn independent living skills.

---

I agree that children should learn independent living skills, such as cooking.

A

> > studying overseas, don't worry about

First, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students.

When studying overseas, they are often required to cook for themselves.

If students can master this skill in advance, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

B

> > buying prepared food, avoid high-calorie foods

Moreover, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants.

When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health.

Conversely, relying on prepared food often leads to consuming unhealthy food components.

Therefore, learning independent skills benefits children a lot.

::: detail 应用

### Q1.

In order to teach young people about good nutrition and health, your school is planning to require students to take cooking classes in addition to other subjects. Do you think this requirement is a good idea? Why or why not?（真题：37 CN）

---

I think this requirement is a good idea.

First, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants. When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health. Conversely, relying on prepared food often leads to consuming unhealthy food components.

Moreover, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students. When studying overseas, they are often required to cook for themselves. If students can master this skill in advance, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

### Q2.

Should parents protect their children from difficulties?（真题：0512 CN）

---

Parents should teach children how to overcome challenges instead of always protecting them from difficulties. Teaching children to cook is a good way to cultivate their independence.

First, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students. When studying overseas, they are required to cook for themselves. If students can master this skill, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

Moreover, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants. When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health.

### Q3.

Do you think that students should learn how to cook?（真题：0908 CN）

---

I agree that students should learn how to cook.

First, cooking is a necessary skill, especially for international students. When studying overseas, they are often required to cook for themselves. If students can master this skill in advance, they don't have to worry about the issue of meal preparation, even if they are studying abroad alone.

Moreover, knowing how to cook can prevent students from constantly buying prepared food from restaurants. When we cook at home, we tend to buy fresh ingredients, avoid high-calorie foods, and maintain our health.

Conversely, relying on prepared food often leads to consuming unhealthy food components.

:::

### 讨论

State whether you agree or disagree with the following statement. Learning through online courses is more effective than learning in the traditional classroom setting.

---

① I disagree that learning through online courses is more effective than in the classroom.

A

> > class discussions, effective learning method, various angles

② First, learning in the classroom allows us to engage in discussions with teammates and professors face-to-face, which is an effective learning method.

③ For instance, during my accounting class, we organized group discussions on corporate finance.

④ In this way, exchanging ideas has enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

B

> > interact regularly with classmates, make intimate friends

⑤ Second, being in the classroom allows me to interact regularly with classmates, enhancing friendships quickly.

⑥ However, online learning restricts us to just listening to lectures, which makes it challenging to connect with peers and make good friends.

::: detail 应用

### Q1.

When you have questions, do you prefer to ask the advisor for help or search it through the Internet or library? Why?（真题：0613 CN）

---

When I have questions, I prefer to ask my advisor and have discussions.

First, discussing my academic questions or career plans with my advisors has been an effective learning method. For example, last semester, I had a question regarding a corporate finance course, and I exchanged ideas with my advisor. This enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Besides, seeking advice from my advisor allows me to study with him and make good friends in the long term. However, if I search for answers online, I may lose opportunities to connect with him and fail to keep friendships.

### Q2

Should students be required to participate in regular discussions in class? Please give your opinion and explanation using specific examples and details.（真题：0320 CN）

---

I believe students should be required to participate in regular discussions in class.

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, if we just self-study without participating in classroom discussions, it is challenging to connect with peers and make good friends.

### Q3.

Describe a change in your country. Explain how this change influenced people in your country. Please include specific reasons and details in your response.（真题：1126 CN）

---

A change that has influenced people, especially the young, in my country is that schools encourage class discussions.

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, in the past schools didn't encourage participating in classroom discussions, it was challenging for young people to improve their social skills.

### Q4

In your opinion, what are the important characteristics of a good school? Please use reasons and specific examples to support your answers.（真题：1202 CN）

---

The most important characteristic of a good school is to allow students to have discussions in class.

First, classroom discussion allows students to interact with their teammates and professors, which is an effective learning method. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

Second, being in discussions in class allows students to interact regularly with different classmates, enhancing friendships quickly. However, if schools don't encourage participating in classroom discussions, it is challenging for young people to improve their social skills.

### Q5.

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In order to be a good teacher, one must have experience. Give specific details and explanations to support your response.（真题：1102 CN）

---

I agree with the statement that in order to be a good teacher, one must have experience.

First, experienced teachers can be more successful in holding class discussions, which is an effective learning method for students. For instance, during my accounting class, we often organized group discussions on corporate finance. This instant exchange of ideas enabled me to gain insights and analyze company operations from various angles.

However, inexperienced teachers tend to just teach based on handouts and slides instead of organizing group discussions in class. In this case, students can’t make full use of educational resource to improve their communication skills.

:::

### 大学作用

Going to university or college can benefit people in many ways other than helping them to find a job. Please state at least one benefit of going to university or college. Use details and examples in your answer.

---

【1. 先表明观点】

Attending university can allow students to make friends and master teamwork skills rather than just job hunting.

应试技巧：表明观点可以尝试转述，比如 “Going to university” 用 “Attending university”，或 “to find a job” 用 “job hunting”。

【2. 输出语料 A 和 B，充满答题时间】

A

> > get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

First, by making friends, students can get advice for solving difficulties.

For example, when college students face troubles, they can discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with friends.

Then, seasoned friends can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

应试技巧：同一个表意，尽量避免只用一个词，尝试替换不同的表达，提高 Language Use 评分。比如困难，可以用 difficulties, troubles, challenges，再或者泛泛表达用 situation。

B

> > communication skills, explain ideas and listen to others

Second, the abundant group work in university courses improves communication skills and enhances team spirit.

For instance, for effective group discussions, students must clearly explain their ideas and listen attentively to others, which is essential in study, work, and life.

应试技巧：如果怕现场答题不好掌控时间，可以备考时在句型结尾设计 “which 引导的非限制性定语从句” 补充说明，考场随机应变：有时间就说，没时间不说也不影响细节拿分。

These skills will benefit students for a lifetime, not just in finding a job.

::: detail

### Q1

Some students prefer to work on class assignments by themselves. Others believe it is better to work in a group.（真题：1020 NA）

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

B

> how to express our ideas and how to listen to others

I think it is better for students to work in a group on their assignments.

First, by working in a group, students can get advice for solving difficulties. For example, when I face troubles, I would like to discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with classmates. Then, other students can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

Second, many courses in the university require group work, which can improve communication skills and enhance team spirit. For effective group discussions, students must clearly explain their ideas and attentively listen to others, which is essential in study, work, and life.

### Q2

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Your friends are the most important influence in your life.（真题：0807 NA）

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

B

> communication skills, explain ideas and listen to others

I think friends are the most important influence in our life.

First, we can get advice from friends for solving difficulties. For example, when I face troubles, I can discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with friends. Then, seasoned friends can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

Second, group work in university courses highlights the importance of making friends to enhance communication skills with each other. For instance, for effective group discussions, my friends help me clearly explain my ideas, which is essential in study, work, and life. Therefore, friends in groups have influenced me a lot.

### Q3

Some people like to study in public places where there are other people around. Others prefer to study in places where there are few or no people around. Which one do you prefer?（真题：1218 CN）

A

> get advice, valuable suggestions, practical experience

B

> communication skills, explain ideas and listen to others

I would like to study in public places because people can work in a group.

First, by working in a place students can exchange ideas freely. For example, when I face troubles, I would like to discuss challenges and analyze the situation thoroughly with classmates in a public space. Then, other students can offer valuable suggestions based on their practical experience.

Second, a public place provides an ideal environment to improve communication skills. For effective group discussions, students must clearly explain their ideas and attentively listen to others, which is essential in study, work, and life.

Therefore, I prefer to study in public spaces.

:::
