# Dynamic Web Server

For this assignment, you will extend your static HTTP server from HW1 to support dynamic content and routes. The API will be based on the API from Spark Framework, a real-world framework creating web applications in Java. Your solution will be used as a foundation for several of the other homework assignments, as well as for the frontend of your search engine at the end.

Spark Framework is a great way to write very compact applications. The following is a complete application that should run on your solution at the end:

```java
import static cis5550.webserver.Server.*;

class HelloWorldApp {
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        port(8080);
        get("/hello/:name", (req, res) -> {
            return "Hello "+ req.params("name"); 
        });
    }
}
```

When this code runs and you open http://localhost:8080/hello/Bob in a browser window, you should see the response “Hello Bob”

To keep the assignment manageable, we will implement a small subset of Spark Framework’s functionality: some of the functions for configuring the server and creating routes, the Request and Response objects, and the actual route-matching code. We will skip most of the complicated features, such as filters or transformers. Also, we will provide some of the boilerplate code for you (specifically, the RequestImpl object), since this is tedious to write and you wouldn’t learn much from it.

As in the earlier assignments, please do use Google, answers from the discussion group, the Java API reference and, if necessary, a good Java book to solve simple problems on your own. The Spark Framework documentation may be useful if you have questions about the API. If none of these steps solve your problem, please post on the discussion group, and we will be happy to help!

## Requirements

Please start by downloading the HW2 package from http://cis5550.net/hw2.zip. This contains a README file with a short questionnaire, an Eclipse project definition (which you can ignore if you are not using Eclipse), a small test suite, three interfaces (Request, Response, and Route), and an implementation of the first interface (RequestImpl). Your solution must meet the following requirements:

Server API: You should have a class cis5550.webserver.Server, as in HW1. This class should have the following static methods: 

- • port(N) should tell the HTTP server to run on port N; 
- • get(p,L), put(p,L), post(p,L) should create GET, PUT, and POST routes, respectively; p is a path pattern (String), and L is a lambda that accepts a pair (req,res), where req is an object of type Request and res is an object of type Response, and returns an Object.

The server should also contain a public static class staticFiles with static method location(P). When this method is called with a string P, the server should start serving static files from path P, just as your HW1 solution did. The web server should start the first time get, put, post, or location is called. You may assume that port() is called at most once, and that it would be the first call. If port() is not called, the server should run on port 80.

**Route API**: The two arguments that are passed to the route handler should implement all of the functions from the Request and Response interfaces, respectively. The expected behavior is documented in Request.java and Response.java. Notice that an implementation of the Request object has already been provided as RequestImpl.

**Error handling**: If a route throws any exception and write() has not been called, your solution should return a 500 Internal Server Error response. If write() has been called, it should simply close the connection.

**Miscellaneous**: The intention is that you will reuse and extend your Server implementation from HW1; you can simply copy over your code to the HW2 project, and then remove the main() method. (Recall that web applications will have their own main() method, and interact with your server through calls like get() and post().) As in HW1, your solution should be able to handle any headers in any order, it should send valid, correctly formatted HTTP responses, and it should handle multiple requests concurrently.

**Packaging**: Your solution should be in a directory called HW2, which should contain 1) the README file from the HW2 package, with all the fields filled in, and 2) a subdirectory called src with all of your source code, in the directory structure Java expects (with subdirectories for packages). Your solution must compile without errors if you run javac --source-path src src/cis5550/webserver/Server.java fom within the HW2 folder. Please do try this before you submit! Submissions that fail this basic check will receive a zero.

## Suggested approach

We suggest that you use the steps below to solve this assignment; however, feel free to use a different approach, or to ignore this section entirely. We will give credit for your solution, as long as it meets the requirements above.

The HW2 package contains a small test suite in cis5550.test.HW2TestClient and cis5550.test.HW2TestSever, which includes a subset of the tests we will use for grading. Several of the steps below will reference these tests. To run tests, first run HW2TestServer (which contains a main() method that defines some routes) and then, without terminating the server, run HW2TestClient – e.g., in a separate terminal window. As in HW1, you can run all the tests by invoking HW2TestClient without command-line arguments, or you can specify a list of tests to run. However, please keep in mind that all the features from Section 2 are required, not just the ones that are covered by the test suite!

Step #1: Copy over your HW1 code. You can simply cut and paste your Server class into the HW2 project. If you defined additional classes for HW1, please do not forget to copy and paste these as well.

Step #2: Add the static methods. Add a public static class staticFiles within your Server class, and add a public static method location(String s) within it. Also, in your main server class, add three public static void methods called get, post, and put, which should each take a String and an instance of Route, and a public static void method port(), which should take an int. Now cis5550.test.HW2TestSever should compile, and not complain about missing methods.

Step #3: Launch the instance on demand. Add to the Server class 1) a static field that can contain an instance of Server and is null initially, and 2) a static flag that is false initially. In each of the server API methods, check whether the field is null, and, if so, create a Server instance and put it into the field. Additionally, in methods other than port, check whether the flag is false, and if so, set it to true and launch a thread that executes a run() method in the server. (This is needed because the server will be handling requests in the background, while the application is free to do other things.) Rename your main() method from HW1 to run(), but get rid of the arguments that specified the port number and the folder location; instead, make the port() and location() methods set fields in the server instance, and use the values from these fields. Notice that location() may not be called at all; your solution should start serving static files only if and when this method is called. The static test in HW2TestClient should now pass. (Remember that HW2TestServer needs to be running while you use the test client; the client will print a message to remind you.)

## Extra credit

If you like, you can implement the following additional features for some extra credit. If you do, please indicate this in the README file you submit! 

**Multiple hosts (+5 points)**:

Add a public static host() method. An application can call host(H) to define routes and a static-file location for a “virtual host” H. When an application calls get(), put(), post(), or staticFiles.location(), these calls should apply only to requests whose Host: header is set to the argument of the most recent host() call (plus optionally a port number, which you should ignore); any calls before the first host() call should apply by default – that is, to requests whose Host: header does not match the argument of any host() calls. For instance, if the application calls

get("/foo", (req,res) -> { return "A"; });
host("bar.com"));
get("/bar", (req,res) -> { return "B"; });
host("xyz.com"));
get("/bar", (req,res) -> { return "C"; });

then a GET request for /bar should return B if it has a Host: bar.com:1234 header, C if it has a Host: xyz.com header, and a 404 Not Found if it has a Host: blubb.com header. A request for /foo should return A with a Host: blubb.com header, but a 404 Not Found with Host: bar.com:1234 or Host: xyz.com.

**Redirection (+5 points):** 

Implement the redirect() method to the response object. If the application calls redirect(U,c), the server should redirect the client to URL U, using response code c (which can be 301, 302, 303, 307, or 308).

**Filters (+5 points):** 

Add two public static methods before() and after() that each take a lambda that has the same signature as a Route) (i.e., it should accept (request,response) and return a String). The lambda(s) that are provided to before() should be called before a route is used, and the lambda(s) that are provided to after() should be called after the route returns; the return values should be ignored. In addition, implement the halt(X,Y) in the response object. When this is called while a request is at the before() stage, the should return an error response, with integer X as the status code and string Y as the reason phrase (Example: halt(401, "Not allowed")), and the relevant route should not be invoked.